docs: restructure and enhancement (#13930)
grafana/grafana: docs/sources/http_api/datasource_permissions.md

+++
title = "Datasource Permissions HTTP API "
description = "Grafana Datasource Permissions HTTP API"
keywords = ["grafana", "http", "documentation", "api", "datasource", "permission", "permissions", "acl", "enterprise"]
aliases = ["/http_api/datasourcepermissions/"]
type = "docs"
[menu.docs]
name = "Datasource Permissions"
parent = "http_api"
+++

# Datasource Permissions API

> Datasource Permissions is only available in Grafana Enterprise. Read more about [Grafana Enterprise]({{< relref "enterprise/index.md" >}}).

This API can be used to enable, disable, list, add and remove permissions for a datasource.

Permissions can be set for a user or a team. Permissions cannot be set for Admins - they always have access to everything.

The permission levels for the permission field:

- 1 = Query

## Enable permissions for a datasource

`POST /api/datasources/:id/enable-permissions`

> Enables permissions for the datasource with the given `id`. No one except Org Admins will be able to query the datasource until a permission have been added which permits certain users or teams to query the datasource.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Enables permissions for the datasource with the given `id`. No one except Org Admins will be able to query the datasource until permissions have been added which permit certain users or teams to query the datasource.
```
